# tableau_citibike

FINAL ANALYSIS FROM THE JUN 2020 - NOV 2020 CITIBIKE DATA

It comes as no surprise to report that the Covid19 pandemic had significant impact on CitiBike ridership during 2020.  Prior to downloading and analyzing the data, I knew the effects of the pandemic would have a negative impact on the program--but I was unsure as to what the final analysis would show.  Here are the main three  phenomena that are most important and deserve to be pointed out:

#1 --  When the lockdown began in late March, as expected, the number of total rides decreased dramatically--even as the weather was warming and becoming more conducive to bike travel.  What wasnt't expected was the dramatic shift away from the typically busiest start stations in Mid-Town, Chelsea, NYU, etc to a much more decentralized dispersement.

#2--The second phenomenon that was discovered via analysis of the data, which was maybe a little bit easier to anticipate, was the big decline we saw in the 8am hour for starttimes.  With lockdown causing businesses and schools to close, we see how important those morning rush hour riders are to our overall numbers.   As restrictions started to ease and re-opening phases began--we see overall ridership increase, especally for that morning rush hour.  We should consider incentivizing those morning rush hour riders to come back now that they've maybe they're still not having to go into the office or classroom, or have found alternate methods for getting to where their going in the morning.  At the very least we should do a campaign educating the public about how the bikes are cleaned and that they are safe.

#3--The Final phenomenon to address is that we are still having a significant percentage of riders fall into the "unknown" gender category.  Since we're always striving for better user data so that we can more precisely tailor our maketing campaings, I think we should institute so minor changes to see if we can convert some of those "unknown" riders into a category.  And what I am suggesting is to increase the number of "gender" categories from just two (male & female).  Some riders may feel those categories too gender binary and in an effort to be more inclusive we could add several gender-neutral designations.  This is a topic that could be further investigated in order to provide some good options to be added to the possible selections.